# Front-end Reference

## Overview

The front end of this project is coded in Javascript ES6 and uses React as a single-page application framework.

## Organization

The major files and folders in `/frontend/` are:

* `/node_modules/`: Stores javascript dependencies for the project
* `/public/`: Stores front end static files.
* `/src/`: Stores all of our custom front end code.
* `package-lock.json`: Stores package and sub-dependency data for npm.
* `package.json`: Stores package data for npm.
* `README.md`: General information reference generated by `create-react-app`.

In `/src/`, application code is largely separated into views and components, where views are the primary object that are associated with a url, and components are reusable objects that are used throughout the views. This encapsulates functionality to make sure that any one file isn't a monolithic, unreadable mess.

## React

Our frontend code uses React, a single-page application framework that uses changes in stored information, called 'state', to selectively update components. This allows our front end to primarily run locally, only sending requests to the server when API data is needed and singnificantly decreasing the time it takes for individual pages to load as a result.

React classes are called components. Each component can have any number of functions and returns JSX output, a combination of HTML and javascript, in a function called `render()`. In this function, any component can reference any other component as an HTML tag and pass arguments, or `props` to it.

## Bootstrap

To style our frontend within React, we use a package called `react-bootstrap`. Presently, we use a version of react-bootstrap that uses CSS from Bootstrap 3, although the package has since updated to accomodate Bootstrap 4.

## Security

Upon logging in, the application stores the authorization token and other user information locally. Many components are designed not to mount if the appropriate permissions are not stored, and the application will automatically log out if it recieves an unexpected unauthorized error from the server that would indicate tampering. When logged out, the application will not render any views aside from the log-in screen.

This is accomplished generally by placing credentials checks in `components/Layout.js` and `components/Router.js`, which are are near the top of the component tree, and more granularly by checking credentials in individual views to selectively render components depending on a user's role.

## Notable Console Commands

* `npm install`: Install all dependencies.
* `npm start`: Start the development server.
* `npm run build`: Compile the front end using Webpack. Webpack configurations in this case are abstracted by `react-scripts`, which were installed as part of the `create-react-app` command line tool.